Okay. Now that we understand the basic architecture of Redshift,
let us go into some general ETL concepts before
delving into the details of ETL associated with Redshift in particular.
So, this is the mental image that we have.
We have the data sources, we want to do ETL.
We want the built dimension model and get the data out and build lots of insights.
But let's go a little bit back and be a little bit very basic.
So, let's say we have a SQL table.
We want to load it into another SQL table after some transformation.
So, that's like select the fact one and fact two into a new fact from table,
from an old fact table.
That's basically what you do while actually doing your,
going from third normal form schema into a star schema for instance.
So, assuming for simplicity,
which is something we actually covered in lesson one,
that the facts table is in the same database which is kind of naive.
That's Hello World of dimensional modeling that we
assume that both are in the same database.
So, select into is actually a good solution for that.
Now, what do we do if we want to copy the results of
a query to another table on a totally different database server?
So, our intention would be to select a couple of facts into another Server.newFactTable.
So, we want a new fact table but we want it on another server.
So, we want to move the data from here to there. How do we do that?
That's actually not very simple.
In fact, if both servers were using the same RDBMS,
you might actually find a way,
it's actually common nowadays in
most modern databases that you find a way to do select into another server.
But hey, usually, we agreed that the data sources are rather heterogeneous, and well,
is every vendor going to implement like the combinatorial explosion
of all sources and sinks for all the different database servers?
That's not very realistic.
Actually, when we take it from here to there,
probably want to do something in the middle.
I mean, if we keep ourselves to this problem, it's already a problem.
But adding to that is that we might want to also do something in the middle.
So, a more general solution for this SQL to SQL ETL is that we actually put
what is known as an ETL server in the middle
or many of them actually have lots of workloads.
So, this first server would have the client,
a software client of that database server.
So, if this one was my SQL,
the ETL server would have MySQL client and can talk to that database server.
Thus in select statement, gets the data.
The data actually gets dumped here as CSVs in
the local storage or network attached storage of that ETL server.
Symmetrically, you would go and insert or copy those ones into the new database server,
which is for our example Postgres let's say.
So, that's a very nice technique.
Actually, you will need lots of storage in the middle for that,
but if you have just a machine doing
this with a product maybe that can automate this process,
that actually work and simplifies the problem of SQL to SQL ETL.